Bela Chauhan: Promoting body positivity

DECK: @corpamor is a space for students to anonymously or openly share
their stories about learning to embrace their bodies.

by: Shama Gupta and Christine Zhang

Word Count: 447

Image: /images/body-artwork.png

Attribution: Bela Chauhan and Grace Weidner

ID: bela-chauhan

Date: April 11 2021

Tag: profiles

Photo/Graphic with credit (required for sign off):

credit to Bela Chauhan and Grace Weidner

Caption: A post on the @corpamor account features art by Grace Weidner
depicting bodies that do not fit the ordinary standard of beauty,
breaking up the account’s typical posts of anonymously submitted
photographs.

Linked to spreadsheet? yes 

On social media, users often post their best, most flawless photos. On
Bela Chauhan’s Instagram account @corpamor, however, people post photos
captioned with reflections about their own physical insecurities.

In February 2020, Bela started the Instagram account @corpamor to
promote body positivity. The Instagram handle comes from the Latin roots
“corp,” meaning body, and “amor,” meaning love. As of April 4, the
account has 25 posts and more than 200 followers.

Users message the account with photos of themselves as well as a caption
for the post. Captions usually consist of users recounting how they got
their insecurities and how they have grown to become more comfortable
with their bodies over time. One user, for instance, described how she
starved herself for a month when her then-boyfriend made fun of her
breasts, while another discussed how she grew to love a large birthmark
on her arm.

“I was hearing a lot of people feeling insecure about their bodies,
whether it was in the locker rooms or the mall,” Bela said. “I’ve
definitely gone through my own arduous journey towards self love, and I
wanted to create a platform that helped support and guide others on that
journey.”

The purpose of the account is to help people embrace their insecurities
and to give them a break from the normal media they consume — images of
models and influencers who often have teams of photographers optimizing
lighting and editors retouching photos to create the most flattering
posts.

“The portrayal of women (and men) in the media is a topic I could go on
for hours about,” Bela said. “Most of what we see on social media isn't
real, yet a lot of people compare themselves to these unrealistic beauty
standards and feel bad.”

Going forward, Bela hopes that she can create an even more inclusive
environment by having people of all genders contribute to the account.
While the account has only had girls contribute so far, Bela said she is
very grateful that many boys have expressed their support.

More than support messages, though, Bela said that the most gratifying
part of starting this account was receiving messages and comments from
people that her content has helped them gain confidence. She believes
that if she has helped even one person feel better about their body, her
work has been worth it.

“It's so wonderful to feel like something small I started is actually
helping people,” Bela said. “Before COVID-19, people would stop me in
the hallways and thank me, or classmates would tell me how much they
loved my account during passing periods. [My ultimate goal is for]
people interacting with my account to feel good, included and
beautiful.”
