Knotting the threads of time

DECK: Senior revisits a childhood activity and finds a new hobby in the
process.

by: Alekhya Vadlakonda

Word Count: 477

Photo/Graphic with credit (required for sign off): maybe a photo of some of the bracelets i’ve made?[]

Image: /images/bracelet.jpg

Attribution: Alekhya Vadlakonda

ID: bracelets

Date: April 22 2021

Tag: columns

Caption:

Linked to spreadsheet? 

Forward knot, backward knot, switch threads, repeat.

When I was in elementary school, I loved friendship bracelets and the
process of making them and giving them to my friends. We all had a sense
of pride in wearing them since they were just about the coolest thing
back then, and also because they held years of friendship with their
threads. But after a few years, they became a relic of the past and I
completely forgot about them.

Years down the road, when the pandemic hit and my home became home,
school and everything in between, I quickly got bored. I had a bit of
time on my hands despite being in the thick of second semester junior
year and found myself constantly wondering what to do. I wandered around
my room mindlessly organizing and reorganizing, and suddenly I came
across a bundle of thread stashed away in a corner of my shelf. There
were various colors, some knotted together and some neatly looped in on
themselves, and I vaguely remembered using some of them ages ago.

Though there was that voice in the back of my head telling me to just
throw away these scraps, I wanted to see if I could make something with
them. After all, I was bored and this embroidery thread seemed like the
perfect way out.

There was only one problem: I forgot everything about making bracelets.

So for the next few hours, I went down the infamous YouTube rabbit hole,
watching other people make friendship bracelets, hoping their expertise
would somehow pass to me. Unfortunately, it didn’t work— go figure.

I eventually found a good tutorial for a bracelet I liked that was
supposedly too advanced for beginners, and took a gamble on the thread
lengths before knotting them and taping it to my desk.

It looked pretty simple to me, a pattern of weaving and knotting the
threads over and over again to get a wavy pattern. How hard could
something so repetitive actually be? Turns out, it could be pretty hard,
as I quickly learned having to painstakingly undo tight knots to fix my
all-too-common mistakes.

Although I spent a sizable portion of two days whiling away at the
bracelet, I was still in school and had homework to do and tests to
prepare for, so I snuck in time over the course of the next few weeks to
work on the bracelet.

And then finally, it was done. I felt happy and accomplished: I had not
only created a pretty cool looking bracelet, but also found a new hobby
in the process. Over the course of this past year, I’ve rediscovered the
simple calm and joy in these bracelets, making several to test out
different types of patterns. The trip down memory lane was tedious and
frustrating at times, but definitely worth it.
