From watching NBA highlights to making them

DECK: Senior picks up video editing in order to delve deeper into his
interest in basketball and other passions.

by: Isaac Le

Word Count: 

Image:

Attribution: 

ID: adithya-nair

Date: May 3 2021

Tag: columns

Photo/Graphic with credit (required for sign off):

Caption:

Linked to spreadsheet? 

In 2017, the craze for NBA highlights and basketball mixtapes was at its
peak. These mixtapes often consisted of flashy passes, dunks and
crossovers, showcasing each athlete's strengths and entertaining viewers
like huge basketball fan Adhitya Nair.

Over time, these mixtapes inspired Adhitya to create his own videos and
post them on his YouTube channel, “Dit’s Docs,” starting in early 2021.
Some of his recent mixtapes include Derrick Rose, Jimmy Butler and
complete 2016 NBA highlights videos.

Adhitya began his journey with the editing software DaVinci Resolve, and
he had almost no video editing experience. At first, he stumbled through
the dark, oblivious to common editing procedures, taking around 10-30
hours to edit 2- to 17-minute videos due to technical difficulties and
inefficient methods.

“Since I was new, I didn't know that these editing software programs
crash super often, so I pretty much lost all my progress, and I almost
quit video editing before the whole thing even got started,” Adithya
said. “Now, hitting command-s has become a subconscious behavior
whenever I edit.”

Through these troubles, Adithya stuck with editing because of the
positive feedback he received from friends and family.

Since starting his YouTube channel, Adithya has expanded from basketball
content to other topics he is interested in. One video, for example,
advocated for stopping Asian and Pacific Islander hate, featuring a
compilation of news clips over a background of music. As of the
beginning of May 2021, Adithya’s channel has 13 videos and 1,000 views
altogether.

Adithya’s interest in video editing has expanded past his own personal
channel, as he has helped edit a variety of other projects, including
students’ YouTube videos, TikToks, a portion of a virtual band show and
the All Male Dance of the school’s annual Bombay in the Bay performance.

In pursuing a pre-med track at Baylor University, Adithya hopes to keep
running his YouTube channel and helping others with his editing skills,
with the goal of creating videos for a wider range of audiences.

“Video editing has really allowed me to expand my interests, and I hope
to continue it in the future,” Adithya said.
