Ramen keeps us close 

DECK: Friends create a monthly tradition out of a small restaurant.

by: Neeti Badve and Shama Gupta

Word Count: 413

Image: /images/neeti-and-shama.jpg

Attribution: Neeti Badve

ID: kongs-ramen

Date: April 1 2021

Tag: columns

Photo/Graphic with credit (required for sign off): trying to find a picture 

Caption:

Linked to spreadsheet? 

Our journey with Kong’s Tofu and Barbecue in Cupertino, known in our
hearts simply as “Kong’s,” started on the fateful day of March 10, 2018.
What began as a couple of our friends making us try some really good
ramen became a place we would go to monthly just to talk about our lives
and fill ourselves with warm comfort food.

Since our first time going to the restaurant, we’ve come a long way. We
were once naive menu-users, but we’ve now memorized and perfected them
down to the spice level and number of rice cakes we want.

In fact, we’re so beloved in the restaurant that the owner greets us
with a complementary steamed egg every time we visit.

To commemorate the good times that are now coming to an end, we’ll take
you through a typical “Kong’s Day.”

1.  Ask our parents if we can go to Kong’s together. Usually, it’s
      received with a “Why don’t you try anything new?” Then, they roast
      us on their Whatsapp group chat unfortunately named “Kongz
      Kweenz.” (Yes, this is real.)

2.  Prepare for spillage. For some reason, Shama always manages to wear
      white, yet still orders ramen that is the brightest shade of red.
      So, of course, we have a specially fashioned Shama-bib just for
      her.

3.  Let Neeti crack the egg into the ramen for everyone. She is the only
      one that can do it right.

4.  Make sure Shama, a vegetarian, does not eat the fish cakes, no
      matter how much they look and taste like tofu. This step did not
      exist until two years ago … oops.

5.  Save no space for dessert but still split Icicles because it’s right
      next door and always hits the spot. (Optimization is key!)

6.  Complain about how full you are, but do it all again the next time
      someone mentions Kong’s.

It goes without saying that this “typical Kong’s day” could not occur in
this past year due to the pandemic. But never underestimate our loyalty
to this restaurant.

With the same exact orders in hand, we just moved our location to
backyards or garages, still finding ways to keep a tradition four years
in the making alive.

Kong’s has always found a way to bring us together, and although we’re
soon going our separate ways, we will always have the memories of being
the loudest group of people in a cozy spot in Cupertino that will
forever appear in our minds when we look back at our high school
journey.
