Bryan Chu: Lights, camera, action

DECK: Bryan Chu watches movies and makes his own films.

by: Justin Guo

Word Count: 422

Image: /images/bryan.png

Attribution: Bryan Chu

ID: bryan-chu

Date: April 3 2021

Tag: profiles

Photo/Graphic with credit (required for sign off): asking for photos 

Caption:

Linked to spreadsheet? yes 

Bryan Chu remembers being intrigued by the power of film in middle
school when he regularly watched movie reviews and video essays on
YouTube. As a freshman, Chu started watching many more movies and grew
even more fascinated.

“I really like film because it's visual and temporal,” Chu said. “It has
the ability to immerse you into a very real experience in a way that’s
unique to film as a medium.”

Chu joined the Media Arts Program as a sophomore and supplemented his
learning by attending a weekly art and film workshop in San Francisco
called SF Film Workshop.

Before junior year, Chu attended the California State Summer School for
the Arts (CSSSA), an intensive four week art summer camp. One of the
films that Chu made at CSSSA — a self-proclaimed psychedelic
autobiography appropriately titled “Anatomy of a Narcissist (or the
futile and profound art of attempting to swallow one’s self)” — got
accepted into the experimental section of the All American High School
Festival 2020 official selection.

In his spare time, Chu has made several films, which he sometimes
uploads to his YouTube channel. He normally aims for narrative-based
films no longer than 5 minutes. Though he has often cast friends as
actors, Chu has focused on making arresting visuals — such as scenery
and shot composition — the strongest part of his films.

“One huge thing you’ll see in almost all student short films is that
acting is really hard,” Chu said. “So my short-film ideas usually don’t
have any dialogue or music as well because I focus on the visuals a
lot.”

But due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Chu hasn’t been able to produce his
regular films. Instead, he’s shifted to experimenting with more visually
abstract work that is completely devoid of plot.

“The idea is to take away all elements of story, plot and character and
evoke tones of feelings through pure abstract visuals, like visual
music,” Chu said. “Some of the themes that frequently come up in my
films are isolation, emptiness and existential boredom.”

Moving forward, Chu plans to attend film school at New York University’s
Tisch School of the Arts and one day work in the film industry.

“I think film is the end in itself,” Chu said. “I want to make as many
films as I can and get my artistic expression out into the world as best
as I can. There’s no auxiliary goal after that.”
